---
layout:     post
title:      Hubot on Digital Ocean
date:       2015_09_17
summary:    Hosting Hubot with Slack integration on Digital Ocean
categories: devops
permalink: /devops/hubot-digital-ocean
---

Like so many others, I have enjoyed the use of Hubot with our Slack team.  Its fun, plus I believe it is on the forefont of the next generation of user interfaces.  In some parts of the world CHAT is the new APP.  This trend has been validated with Facebook's new bot interface with Messenger.  Indeed my team is working on a startup that is using chat to build a novel interface to help people with something the do everyday.  More on that later in another post.

I originally followed the instructions in the [hubot-slack] instructions and hosted my bot on Heroku.  The was easy-peasy, but then Heroku decided that our free applications need to take a break...or else.  Or else...I need to pony up the whopping $7/month for a paid account.  Not too bad, except that I already use Digial Ocean for a number of other hosting tasks.  Why upgrade when I have another option?

Unfortunately, I could find very little information about setting up my own infrastructure to host Hubot.  So here it is.  I spent too much time figuring out a few basic things and hope the following instructions save someone some time.


* **_Digital Ocean_**:  Setup your Digital Ocean droplet.  These instructions are for Ubuntu 14.04.  I won't spend any time here going over that setup.  There is plenty of good documentation on that topic.

* **_Hubot_**: Setup hubot on your local computer by following the [hubot] instructions.  The documentation is pretty easy to follow.

* **_Slack Adapter_**: Next, mosey on over to the [hubot-slack] site and follow the instructions for adding the Slack adapter to your hubot.  You may even want to test deploy on Heroku since it is so quick and easy.  Otherwise skip the Heroku instructions.

* **_Git_**: Although not strictly required, I'll recommend that you create a git repository and check in your Hubot project.  This will make it much easier to keep track of your changes and install your code on your server.  I use [bitbucket] for my git repository.  The rest of these instructions will assume that you are using git.

* **_Node_**: Install NodeJS on your server.  Digital Ocean has a good guide on [node-installation].  The current versions of node install both the `node` executable along with the `npm` package manager.  As a side note, I'll recommend that you check out the npm package `n`.  This is a really cool [version manager] for installing and managing different versions of Node.  It is not required here, so feel free to skip that step.

* **_Packages_**: There are few other `apt-get` and `npm` packages that are required to run hubot on your server:

```

    apt-get install git-core
    apt-get install libssl-dev redis-server libexpat1-dev

    npm install -g coffee-script

```

* **_Clone_**: clone your repository on your server.  Change the folder name and repository name to suite your purposes.

```

    cd /opt
    git clone https://bbschulz@bitbucket.org/bbschulz/hubot.git
    cd hubot

    chmod -R 755 .

```

* **_Upstart_**: Ubuntu comes with [Upstart] which makes startup/shutdown of Hubot easy to configure.  Copy the config from the [hubot.conf] to the following file.  Be sure to validate that the paths match your system.  Also, now is the time to create the Slack integration.  Go to your Slack integrations and configure Hubot.  You will be given a token.  Update this file with the token.  Also, this specifis that Hubot will run on `port=8999`.  You are free to change this port, but be sure to also update the [nginx-hubot.conf] file accordingly.

```
    vi /etc/init/hubot.conf
```

* **_Nginx_**: Now lets configure a virtual server for nginx to proxy requests to hubot.  Grab the configuration from [nginx-hubot.conf] and copy to the following file.  Change `server_name hubot.mydomain.com;` to match your domain name.

```
    vi /etc/nginx/sites-available/nginx-hubot.conf
    ln -sf /etc/nginx/sites-available/nginx-hubot.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/nginx-hubot.conf
```

Now startup everything:

```
    service nginx restart
    cd /opt/hubot
    npm install
    start hubot
```

Check out the log to verify everything is in order:

```
    tail /var/log/hubot.log
```

Enjoy!!


[hubot-slack]: https://github.com/slackhq/hubot-slack
[hubot]: https://hubot.github.com/docs/
[node-installation]: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-node-js-on-an-ubuntu-14-04-server
[version manager]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/n
[bitbucket]: https://bitbucket.org/
[Upstart]: http://upstart.ubuntu.com/
[gist]: https://gist.github.com/lookingcloudy/c05d2239d97f46f608b6
[hubot.conf]: https://gist.github.com/lookingcloudy/c05d2239d97f46f608b6#file-hubot-conf
[nginx-hubot.conf]: https://gist.github.com/lookingcloudy/c05d2239d97f46f608b6#file-nginx-hubot-conf

